Martha: Throughout the semester, Martha has worked on both the front-end and the back-end of the web app. Martha was especially key to the early development stages of the web-app: she researched the Spotify developer kit, worked with Danai to create the initial Flask app structure and to create the initial SQL database. On the front end, she worked with Elise to create new forms and helped refine the UI of the web app. On the back end, she worked with Caroline on multiple implementations of the data (multiple versions of the schema, multiple ways of implementing the app-database connection), created load queries, and worked with Caroline on implementing the Spotify authorization. Since Milestone 2, Martha worked extensively with Elise to make sure that the data page is tailored for each listener. She also implemented basic error handling in the app, and worked with Caroline to deploy the app on a Duke VM using nginx. 

Selen: Throughout the semester, Selen has worked largely on the back-end of the web-app. Up to milestone 2, Selen’s primary contributions lay in meeting with Danai to obtain/setup project infrastructure (inquiring about data source, getting the VM, etc.), testing SQL queries, and creating the minimum viable code for integrating the Spotify authorization with the web-app. Since Milestone 2, Selen wrote code to generate a radar chart to display user-related music statistics and wrote code to generate a user comparison graph (using t-SNE). They worked with Elise and Ben on incorporating the visualizations into the web app, and ran security tests using Burp Suite to check against SQL injection attacks. 

Elise: Throughout the semester, Elise has worked largely on the front-end of the web-app, implementing the HTML/CSS/JS for all the pages in our web-app. During this process, she also worked heavily on the user flow of the web-app (i.e. how users interact with and navigate through the web-app). Since Milestone 2, Elise has created SQL queries to pull user data from our database (i.e., top artists, tracks, track names, track preview MP3s, listener/track/artist profile pictures, etc.), and wrote the HTML/CSS/JS to display this information on the “your data”s page. Elise also worked extensively with Selen to incorporate Selen’s radar charts and t-sne based clustering graphs into the web app. Finally, Elise polished the web interface by adding JS animations to icons, adding background pictures, refining placement of buttons, improving the color scheme, and allowing tracks to be played. 

Ben: Throughout the semester, Ben has worked primarily on the back-end of the web-app. Up to Milestone 2, Ben’s primary contributions lay in writing code to pull data from the Spotify API, designing the database, creating the ER diagram, data cleaning, and exploring algorithms to cluster users based on music taste. Since Milestone 2, Ben altered the data cleaning functions to include genre information, implemented the login/relogin system using Flask session variables, and implemented passwords. Ben also worked with Selen/Elise on incorporating the visualizations into the “your data” page, and worked with Caroline on compiling the final report, writing the members.txt, and filming the project demo video. 

Caroline: Throughout the semester, Caroline worked primarily on the back-end of the app and scoping/planning the project. On the coding front, she created the overall repository structure, wrote data cleaning functions, worked with Ben on exploring algorithms to cluster users based on music taste, and worked with Martha on the Spotify authorization. On the scoping/planning front, she proposed the initial project idea, helped the group to determine what the app deliverables would be, and helped the group determine week-to-week goals.  Since Milestone 2, she generated music features from the database data for the visualizations, added short/medium/long-term top songs/artists information to the database, and wrote code to get reauthorization for returning users. Caroline also helped Ben with implementing Flask sessions, helped Martha to deploy the web-app, and helped Elise/Selen with incorporating the visualizations into the web-app. Finally, she worked with Ben on compiling the final report, writing the members.txt, and filming the project demo video. 
